Whether observation-centred approach used by Dr. Field or the interview centred approach used by Dr. Karp is better suited to evaluate child rearing in Tertia and other islandic cultures would require more evidence than provided by the author. Dr. Karp not only makes a strong conlcusion about observation centric approach being invalid because he finds Dr. Field's research invalid, but also he doesn not provide any evidence as to how many children his team interviewed or what kind of questions they were asked or if his team considered the dynamic changes that could have occurred in the Tertian culture in the last 20 years since Dr Field published his research.

Dr. Karp's team is said to have interviewed children and these children talk about their biological parents more than the other adults in the village. We are not provided any kind of statistics of the number of children interviewed, whether these sample children were a good representation of all the children of the vilage. It might be the case that the children sampled by his team were belonging to a faction within the village that believes that the biological parents should rear their children more than the other adults or maybe the parents of these children spend more time with these children. Dr. Karp would need to provide what kind of methodology his team used to sample these children from the whole population and what makes these children be representative of the whole population.

Dr. Karp also doesn't provide any insight into the kind of questions the interviewed children were asked. It might be the case that the questions asked by his team are not properly researched and they ask more questions related to the biological parents than other adults thus leading to the children talking more about their biological parents.

The conclusion drawn about the rearing practices in Terta from the point that the children talked more about their biological parents than other adults meaning that they are reared by the biological parents seems far fetched. Offsprings in mammals are by birth more emotionally attached to their biological parents and this could be the case in Tertia as well where the whole village rears the children but the children tend to be more attached to their biological parents than other adults.

There is no evidence provided that if Dr. Karp's team factored the dynamic changed that could have occurred in Tertian culture in the past 20 years since Dr. Field conducted his research. It might be the case that during the time of Dr. Field's research the Tertian children were reared by the whole village and with time there has been a change towards biological parents rearing the children. This could mean that both approached the observation centric and interview centric are valid in their own rights.

Dr. Karp's arguement could be strengthened if he provides the statistics of the children interviewed and also insights into the choosing children to interview would be needed, along with proper analysis reports of the questions asked by the interview team. They would also need to provide what methodology they used to account for the 20 years that have passed between the two researches. In its present form, however, the conclusion is strong and invalid for reasons indicated.