	Whether to reprimand for negative actions, or not, while praising for positive actions while teaching, has been a debate of the recent times. While both sides have their strengths and weaknesses I believe that if negative actions are ignored the person might learn to get away with wrongdoings and this could have serious repercussions on their lives and also of those around them. Furthermore it is our responsibility to make an individual we teach ready to be on their own in real world situations and if the person doesn't understand to differentiate positive actions from negative they might suffer.
	
	If as a child we are praised for our positive actions and not scolded for wrongdoings we might just learn to do something positive in order to get away with a wrongdoing. This can cause serious problems not just for the person but also for the society as a whole. When I was a child myself my parents would make sure to reward me for any positive thing I did like score well at school or help someone. On the other hand at one instance I was caught stealing some money from my mother's bag, I was castigated for this action and that day I learnt it was unacceptable to steal and that it could land me in trouble. On the other hand had I gotten away with stealing at that time, it could be possible I would still be stealing from my parents and my habits could have grown I could have started stealing from other people as well. We can agree how this could be a big problem for the people around such an individual.
	
	A child whose positive actions are praised and negative actions ignored might not be able to learn to differentiate between a positive and a negative action. He or she might just learn that what all falls under the positive action category and rest everything does not matter. I have seen some children abusing their parents when the child has grown up, this behaviour is most common when as a child they were not told that such behaviour is indecorous. While it is necessary to reward for positive actions it is equally necessary to make sure the individual knows the propriety behaviour and also develops ethical thinking.
	
	Some may argue that if a child is praised for good deeds and their negative actions are ignored they would themselves learn to do positive actions in order please their parent or teacher. While this can be true in most cases, but consider the example of a child who does not. There have been numerous articles and disturbing news stories about serial killers or rapists having a childhood in which they never were told that their actions are not proper and that they could harm someone by such actions. It is our duty as a parent or a teacher to ensure that the childis ready to be on his/her own when they grow up.
	
	There are stories about pot makers that they are soft on the inside and tough on the outside to make sure their creation is flawless, parenting and teaching should draw analogies from this and strike a balance between praising for good deeds while also chastising for wrong doings.